well let's hope they've got the power
back on yes and you've got a job to do
for behaviorist Emma Magnus spraying
cats is a problem she comes across all
too often she'll help home is sue in
Richard staples if anyone can so this is
the culprit this is Alfie she lovely is
very soft why do you get spray then Emma
cats usually spray urine around the home
because they're feeling insecure in
their territory territory is a very very
important thing to a cat and if it feels
insecure in any way perhaps it's been a
an invasion of that territory then
they'll put their urine around the home
in prominent locations make themselves
feel better is this something that we
can solve it certainly is first to take
a look at the places where Alfie feels
most threatened
Alfie's problem is caused by other cats
coming through this cat flap so what we
need to do is make it more secure a
magnetic cat flap should do the trick
now alphas been spraying urine in here
and that's because he sits on this
windowsill and watches everything going
on outside including the other cats you
can see he's sitting here is tails
twitching it's not very relaxed whilst
he's here and therefore he's going to
spray his earring all around this window
and remember if a cat sprays you must
never punish it so why is the front door
significant the front door significant
because every single time we open or
close this door we're letting in smells
from the outside which he's sniffing and
I could see him sniffing see him keeping
an eye on that so what he's going to do
is put his urine around the front door
just to stake out his claim in that area
Alfie sprays urine because it's the only
effective way he has of spreading his
distinctive scent around the house but
his scent is all over his body and it's
easy enough to transfer that is with a
little help from us all you need is a
damp cloth and patience it has to be
done in all the places where Alfie feels
threatened and repeated often but if you
miss a spot and Alfie gets hair instead
then a thorough wipe round with
biological washing powder in hot water
and some disinfectant will dispel the
unpleasant
[Music]